---
title: "Using Switchboard: Creating Custom Data Feeds"
description: ""
authors: [gallynaut]
tags: []
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

# Using Switchboard: Creating Custom Data Feeds

Switchboard is a permission-less Oracle network allowing anyone to spin up their
own data feeds and publish on-chain. To accomplish this, data feeds can be
configured from a collection of tasks in order to fetch data, parse a response,
then determine a final result. You can find a list of available tasks in our
documentation. Today’s article will walk you through spinning up your own data
feed to fetch the current weather in Miami, FL using Switchboard’s publisher
site. This could be used by an on-chain program to calculate and settle
insurance contracts relating to weather events.

<!--truncate-->

## Build Job Definition

### Data Sources

A data feed should have multiple sources but for this example we’ll keep it
simple. We’ll be using the
[api.weather.gov/gridpoints](https://www.weather.gov/documentation/services-web-api#/default/gridpoint)
endpoint to resolve our data feed. After doing some digging we’ve determined
that the weather forecast office should be **MFL** and the latitude and
longitude should be 111 and 50 respectively. So our full API endpoint should be
[https://api.weather.gov/gridpoints/MFL/111,50/forecast](https://api.weather.gov/gridpoints/MFL/111,50/forecast).
We’ll pass this URL as the argument to the httpTask.

### Parse Response

Now we need to extract the value from the API response. Here is what the
response will look like:

<iframe
  src="https://medium.com/media/efe4c82a9487835fcd6d62c5d5dd9055"
  frameborder="0"
></iframe>

We can use the JsonParseTask to extract this value. This relies on using
JsonPath syntax to grab a value.[ https://jsonpath.com](https://jsonpath.com/)
is a great resource to test your queries. After some trial and error we’ve
determined that the JSON path query should be
“$.properties.periods.0.temperature”. This will access the first array element
in the properties.periods object and return that period’s temperature. So now
we’ve figured out how to fetch the weather data and extract the latest
temperature value.

### Build Task Definitions

Now we can put it all together. The httpTask will be used to fetch external
data, then pass it to the jsonParseTask to extract the latest temperature value.
The final definition will look like this:

<iframe
  src="https://medium.com/media/132f06aaba39e0b0e9f91d97cac4395b"
  frameborder="0"
></iframe>

## Build Data Feed

When building a Switchboard data feed, you will need to create the following
accounts:

- Aggregator — to manage the data feed configuration and store the result

- Job(s) — to store each job definition (only one needed for our example)

- Lease — to pre-fund oracles for any update request

- Permission — permits an aggregator to use a set of oracles

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/3200/0*YaoRCEngI8vcvb00)

Luckily the [Switchboard App site](https://app.switchboard.xyz/)
streamlines the on-chain workflow and handles this for us. We’ll be creating a
new data feed for Switchboard’s permission-less queue. Optionally, you can
request permissions to Switchboard’s permissioned queue once you are satisfied
with the feed’s configuration.

### Configure Data Feed

Connect your wallet, then locate and select the _Custom Feed_ button. The
following popup lets you configure the name of your feed, as well as the job
definitions. Our example uses a single job.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/0*RNVzR-Gv-tI9e8yx)

Give your feed a name such as _MIA Temperature,_ then select _Add Job+_. Give
the job a name, such as Weather.gov MIA, then paste in the job definition from
above. You can hit _Test_ to simulate the result to ensure you are using the
correct job definition.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/0*EdbEKh2EegG7kAQT)

Select _Add Job_ to be taken back to the Build a Feed modal. Then select _Add
Feed_ to add the feed to your basket.

### Create Data Feed

You should have the weather feed in your basket and ready for checkout.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*_Ywdq0LL75kJkZxO8vjTvQ.png)

Select _Checkout_ to begin publishing your feed on-chain. You should see the
following modal to fund your lease contract:

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*9gB-dywmlXFRUY4qNrD1lA.png)

This step will deposit the specified SOL amount into a lease contract. If the
_Enable automatic updates_ checkbox is selected, your feed will be added to the
crank and updated at a regular interval of your choosing. Note the exact update
times are dependent on the Solana network and an added jitter. Each time your
feed successfully updates, a portion of the lease contract will be dispersed to
the oracles fulfilling the update request. When you are happy with the settings,
select _Go to Checkout_.

The Checkout Exchange modal will display a summary of the account creation cost.
Select _Create Feed_ to start the on-chain account creation.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*EVfnM7Z2n-L-QoyIIWfNAA.png)

Once complete, you should see your new data feed on the _Your Feeds_ page
already updating!

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*qN18XKbiGxeGyWrhSIHXSg.png)

## Conclusion

Switchboard allows developers to build and configure their own on-chain data
feeds. If you’re building with Switchboard and need a new task type or
additional functionality please reach out to us on Discord, Telegram, or
Twitter.

- [Job Directory](https://docs.switchboard.xyz/job-directory)

- [Data Feeds Architecture](https://docs.switchboard.xyz/architecture/feeds)

- [Switchboard Tasks](https://docs.switchboard.xyz/api/tasks)
